web/content/docs/reference/troubleshooting.mdx, before:

---
title: Troubleshooting
description: Operator-focused diagnostics for workspace, scheduler, todo runner, and runtime failures.
---

# Troubleshooting

Use this page to isolate failures quickly.

## Fast Triage Sequence

1. Verify current workspace path.
2. Verify the failing feature's required directory/command is valid.
3. Check local diagnostics and in-card error state.
4. Re-run with a minimal prompt/todo item.
5. Expand scope only after baseline success.

## Workspace Resolves To Wrong Path

Symptom:

- Workspace appears as a temp path like `/var/folders/.../agent-observer-smoke-*`

Fix:

1. Set default workspace directory to the intended repo root.
2. Reopen folder in Explorer.
3. Confirm scope indicator before sending chat prompts.

## Renderer Crash / Blue Screen

1. Restart the app.
2. Reopen one workspace only.
3. Reproduce with minimal actions.
4. Check diagnostics logs for `render-process-gone` or related errors.

## Search Missing Expected Files

1. Confirm workspace root is correct.
2. Confirm target path is inside workspace.
3. Check macOS privacy permissions for folder access.
4. Re-run search with exact file name.

## Scheduled Action Not Running

1. Confirm task is enabled.
2. Validate cron has 5 fields.
3. Confirm app was open at trigger time.
4. Use **Run now** to test immediate execution path.
5. Verify working directory exists.
6. If runs stay behind, check diagnostics for `scheduler.tick.backlog_capped` (oldest pending entries are dropped when per-task backlog reaches `AGENT_SPACE_SCHEDULER_PENDING_BACKLOG_LIMIT`, default `240`).

## Scheduled Action Fails Immediately

1. Check `Last error` on schedule card.
2. Verify prompt is non-empty and scoped.
3. Verify runtime dependencies for your command/tooling.
4. Tighten prompt and retry manually.

## Duplicate Scheduled Run After Restart

1. Check diagnostics for `scheduler.ledger.pruned`.
2. Verify `AGENT_SPACE_SCHEDULER_MINUTE_LEDGER_RETENTION_MINUTES` is not set too low.
3. Confirm `~/.agent-observer/scheduler-minute-ledger.json` is writable.

## Todo Runner Job Not Progressing

1. Verify **Runner command** exists and is executable.
2. Run the same command manually in target directory.
3. Confirm runner reads env/stdin payload.
4. Confirm runner exits non-zero on failures.
5. Check job card for the current failed todo and retry count.

## Todo Runner Item Keeps Failing

1. Capture stderr/error from runner output.
2. Reproduce the item manually outside Todo Runner.
3. Fix dependency or prompt issue.
4. Check the job card's **Next retry** timestamp to confirm backoff cadence.
5. Click **Start** to continue from remaining items.

If attempts reached max and item is blocked:

- fix root cause
- use **Reset Progress** only if full replay is acceptable

## Duplicate Active Agents

If one chat appears as multiple office agents:

1. Refresh session state.
2. Restart app.
3. Reopen one chat and confirm single active thread.

## If You Need A Clean Baseline

1. Close extra tabs/runs.
2. Reopen one workspace.
3. Test one small prompt or one short todo item.
4. Add complexity incrementally.

Commit message:

docs: add install telemetry privacy disclosure and runbook

web/content/docs/reference/troubleshooting.mdx, after:

---
title: Troubleshooting
description: Operator-focused diagnostics for workspace, scheduler, todo runner, and runtime failures.
---

# Troubleshooting

Use this page to isolate failures quickly.

## Fast Triage Sequence

1. Verify current workspace path.
2. Verify the failing feature's required directory/command is valid.
3. Check local diagnostics and in-card error state.
4. Re-run with a minimal prompt/todo item.
5. Expand scope only after baseline success.

## Workspace Resolves To Wrong Path

Symptom:

- Workspace appears as a temp path like `/var/folders/.../agent-observer-smoke-*`

Fix:

1. Set default workspace directory to the intended repo root.
2. Reopen folder in Explorer.
3. Confirm scope indicator before sending chat prompts.

## Renderer Crash / Blue Screen

1. Restart the app.
2. Reopen one workspace only.
3. Reproduce with minimal actions.
4. Check diagnostics logs for `render-process-gone` or related errors.

## Search Missing Expected Files

1. Confirm workspace root is correct.
2. Confirm target path is inside workspace.
3. Check macOS privacy permissions for folder access.
4. Re-run search with exact file name.

## Scheduled Action Not Running

1. Confirm task is enabled.
2. Validate cron has 5 fields.
3. Confirm app was open at trigger time.
4. Use **Run now** to test immediate execution path.
5. Verify working directory exists.
6. If runs stay behind, check diagnostics for `scheduler.tick.backlog_capped` (oldest pending entries are dropped when per-task backlog reaches `AGENT_SPACE_SCHEDULER_PENDING_BACKLOG_LIMIT`, default `240`).

## Scheduled Action Fails Immediately

1. Check `Last error` on schedule card.
2. Verify prompt is non-empty and scoped.
3. Verify runtime dependencies for your command/tooling.
4. Tighten prompt and retry manually.

## Duplicate Scheduled Run After Restart

1. Check diagnostics for `scheduler.ledger.pruned`.
2. Verify `AGENT_SPACE_SCHEDULER_MINUTE_LEDGER_RETENTION_MINUTES` is not set too low.
3. Confirm `~/.agent-observer/scheduler-minute-ledger.json` is writable.

## Todo Runner Job Not Progressing

1. Verify **Runner command** exists and is executable.
2. Run the same command manually in target directory.
3. Confirm runner reads env/stdin payload.
4. Confirm runner exits non-zero on failures.
5. Check job card for the current failed todo and retry count.

## Todo Runner Item Keeps Failing

1. Capture stderr/error from runner output.
2. Reproduce the item manually outside Todo Runner.
3. Fix dependency or prompt issue.
4. Check the job card's **Next retry** timestamp to confirm backoff cadence.
5. Click **Start** to continue from remaining items.

If attempts reached max and item is blocked:

- fix root cause
- use **Reset Progress** only if full replay is acceptable

## Duplicate Active Agents

If one chat appears as multiple office agents:

1. Refresh session state.
2. Restart app.
3. Reopen one chat and confirm single active thread.

## Install Count Not Increasing In Production Mode

1. Confirm desktop **Settings -> Diagnostics -> Anonymous install beacon** is enabled.
2. Confirm backend has `AGENT_OBSERVER_WORLD_INSTALL_SOURCE=production`.
3. Confirm ingest endpoint is reachable (`POST /api/install-beacon`).
4. Confirm rate limits are not being hit (`429` with `Retry-After`).
5. Confirm backend aggregate store path is configured as expected (`AGENT_OBSERVER_INSTALL_BEACON_STORE_FILE`).

If beacon opt-out is enabled, this installation will not contribute to production install count.

## If You Need A Clean Baseline

1. Close extra tabs/runs.
2. Reopen one workspace.
3. Test one small prompt or one short todo item.
4. Add complexity incrementally.
